[Music]
this is Star Talk Neil degrass Tyson
you're a personal astrophysicist got
Chuck nice with me Chuck yes sir what's
up NE all right we're do cosmic queries
today yes it is but but beyond category
Cosmic grab bag grab bag Galactic
Galactic gumbo
GB is gumbo really just trash that was
left over when it was invented uh not
when ivang G makes it I told you I'm
going to get you some Ivan G gumbo let
me tell you now Boy
tell craw dad in that boy put little
in all I heard was
G so this is just so what why aren't we
sorting them anymore we just R they're
just random no because they like you
know they're Sometimes they come in in
such a way that you know that's how they
come in and they make you know they're
good questions just throw them all
together and let's do and I'll answer
what I can there you go all right this
is gerage bangi and gerage says is it
theoretically possible to develop a
space
drive that would have constant
acceleration hence creating constant
artificial gravity that's what Rockets
do do okay okay but but but he means
continuous like we're going to to Mars
and so you're burning the entire time
that you're going if you do that you'll
get there very fast like so this 9month
journey journey that we talk about going
to Mars three days to the Moon nine
months to Mars you know what that is
that is aiming for where the object will
be when you arrive gotta fire your
engines enough so you don't fall back to
earth right okay and you need enough
energy to cross over
to where the your destination's gravity
exceeds the gravity of Earth right so
it's basically like like that planet
when it gets to that lassos you and then
starts pulling you towards the planet
it's like climbing to the top of a hill
and then you can just roll down roll
down hill okay so you're climbing out of
the gravitational well of the earth and
it's getting weaker and weaker and
weaker but as you're getting towards the
other object it's stronger and stronger
and stronger there's a point where they
balance and if you cross over that point
you just fall towards your destination
correct once you launch yourself with
enough speed to get there there's no
engines firing right and once you cross
over no engines firing you just fall in
right you need your engines again to Not
Crash okay right because you're
accelerating all the way there by the
action of the planet all right that t
for to Mars that's a minimum of 9 months
if instead you accelerate at the whole
time mhm then you still want to slow
down so you'll accelerate till you're
like halfway there then turn around and
then decelerate the rest of the time
captain we're approaching the planet
fire the Retro Rockets you got to fire
the Retro Rockets except this would be a
sustained thing and that way you would
maintain a certain artificial gravity
because an acceleration of a rocket is
an exact mimic mimic of being on a
gravitational surface so the only Sci-Fi
show I've ever seen that does and I
recognized it from you telling me
exactly what you just said years ago
it's called the expanse and I've had so
much respect for them
because they show a ship headed towards
a planet and the
engines you see first firing toward as
it's moving towards the planet so it's
like the entire time that they're
showing you like oh they're headed to
what planet and then they show you and
it looks like the ship is going in
reverse oh interesting yeah because but
exactly why you said because they're
firing the Rockets to slow down to
approach the planet correct correct Co
but there's another interesting fact
here while you are firing Rockets there
is a force operating on you that you
will not be able to to distinguish from
an ordinary gravitational force this was
deduced by Albert Einstein in What's
called the equivalence principle
accelerating rocket is indistinguishable
from you sitting on with Earth's
acceleration of gravity if the two
accelerations are equal right you
there's no experiment you can perform
other than looking out the window to
know if you're in a rocket or sitting
here on Earth in a in a in a box right
okay so now what's that movie that had
Moon Pirates Ser oh oh that was called
ad asra Ad Astra that's was ad asra if
you're going to use the phrase Ad Astra
you better get your stuff correct that's
right okay Ad Astra means to the stars
in
right this is a this is a deep phrase
that we've been using in the space
Community forever right and
interestingly it's on the state flag of
Kansas for the tornado state that makes
sense Dy Dy that makes sense for the
tornado State I was launched at
Astra so they would show these Rockets
right firing and you go inside the ship
and they were all weightless no that
wouldn't work there's this misconception
that being in space makes you late
weightless no no if you are drifting in
space as our space missions do right
they're sent in motion and you're
drifting towards the crossover point and
then you fall in oh there you go you're
weightless that entire time but as long
as you have on Rockets you are not
weightless at all look at that yeah
super cool man yeah so uh yeah so you
could do it but oh sorry getting back
back to the question right you need
filling stations along the way what if
you're going to drive straight from New
York to LA how big must your gas tank be
well that's yes okay so you need we have
gas stations along the way so if you
really want to accelerate to your
destination through space you need
filling stations parked throughout the
solar system right and you reload and
keep going right but we're not there yet
or uh like in Star Wars where they have
the ship that is
part of another ship so there's one ship
that gets you to hyperspace but then
when you come out of hyperspace your
ship leaves that ship and then you can
just ride ride normal okay so something
else did all the heavy LIF did all the
heavy LIF yeah yeah okay cool man very
very cool gerage thanks for the question
here's Ryan oh just while I'm there go
ahead when you're in orbit you're freely
Falling Towards Earth there are no
Rockets keeping you in orbit you're just
falling around the Earth around the
earth and so weightless there it's not
cuz you are there's no gravity in space
right right we have it's a it's a
delusion not a delusion we've been
misled yeah to think that the act of
being in space is synonymous with being
weightless same as when you're on that
uh what's it called the vomit Comet
what's that thing called vomit Comet
yeah yeah the airplane the airplane yeah
yeah it goes into a controlled into a a
parabolic dive where you're falling
towards Earth exactly it's basically for
that short period of for that short bit
it's sort of orbiting Earth right did
you have physics in high school um they
they taught it in my
school okay I should did you did you
learn physics in schol sorry yeah a
those are two different
questions one of the things you learn is
that a projectile has a parabolic Arc
right okay and there's a formula for
Parabola and you can solve how far
neglecting air resistance you can know
how far a projectile will go first use
the computers yes it in fact it was for
the military for the milit they know
where the bomb where the bomb's going to
fall you got to be able to figure out
the trajectory of MOT shells turns out
it's not actually a parabola oh okay
it's very close right but it's not a
parabola it is the
segment of an orbit an elliptical orbit
gotcha if the entire mass of the Earth
were at its Center that makes sense okay
that is so cool yes it's completely cool
so you take all the mass of the Earth
collect to a point in the center and
watch this go in orbit around around
that point around that point that's
right that is so
cool okay so but it doesn't succeed
because Earth gets in the way exactly
but the forces controlling it is what's
the mass of the Earth and what's its
distance from the center of the earth
that's all that matters you collapse all
the mass there and then then you have it
fantastic yeah so even when you're even
when you're like the space station
you're falling around the falling around
the earth very very cor very cool man
all right all right here's Ryan a Ryan a
says hey Neil is he witness protection
there Ryan a yeah exactly he says hey
Neil and maybe Chuck oh would you know
something I don't know
Ryan he says hey Neil maybe Chuck Ryan
from Toronto here my question might be
obvious but time dilation has been
messing with my time as it should but no
one should be comfortable with time
right yeah once you said that a photon
doesn't experience time it's born and
immediately is destroyed if a photon
from somewhere in the galaxy is born and
over time it red shifts as we know
photons do how can it both experience a
red shift but also be destroyed
immediately after
creation thanks love the
show I that's a great question it really
I don't I don't know that I have a good
answer for that I
do because that's how it
is cuz that's how photons roll okay so
what he's saying is if the photon that's
emitted is different from the photon
detected or destroyed at the end of its
path then something happened to the
photon so if something happened to the
photon the photon has to be temporarily
aware of that in some way right wow you
asked that question better than he did
I'm thinking that's I'm thinking that's
what he means I'm pretty pretty sure
pretty sure so we see this the question
is what does the photon think happened
right now since it's emitted at one
wavelength and detected at
another I got to think about that that's
something huh cuz the photon would have
to say I am red shifting but to even be
able to say that time time elapsed for
you exactly you was something yesterday
different tomorrow different right yep
that's pretty wild no I don't have a
good answer you know who might have an
answer is Jan Jan friend of the show
yeah exactly she's a cosmologist
somebody called Jan we got the hotline
where's the Janna hotline please can we
get Jan on the phone guys we get I have
a red phone at my desk did you notice
and that's is that for Jana or that for
for somebody to put that mustache in the
sky to call you mustache in the sky
emergency we have a we have a cosmic
emergency put the mustache in the sky
mustache you know if this was 150 years
ago everyone would have a mustache and
then no one would be talking about my
mustache true that's true you'd be like
true you know everybody in Civil War had
a mustache and weird ones too like with
handlebars and all kinds of crap okay
yeah all right well listen that's a very
good question Ryan yeah sorry I don't
I'm sorry and who knows who knows what
the answer is I I have to ask the photon
I'll get back to him learning the
complexities of the universe and the
intricacies of astrophysics is like
learning a completely new language take
it from me I've had a front row seat to
one of the greatest teachers of Our
Generation and there's still so much to
learn and I love it you know with any
new language or subject you're looking
to learn you need a great teacher and
that's why we're through to introduce
today's sponsor Babel one of the top
language learning apps in the world
providing you with access to learn up to
14 new languages from the convenience of
your phone at just 10 minutes per lesson
Babel makes it incredibly easy to get
started on your new Journey no matter
how busy your schedule might be now
Babble lessons are created by over 650
real language experts so you can learn
practical real world conversations in no
time at all now I live in a heavily
Spanish speaking community and I've
taken it upon myself to learn Spanish so
I can get a little closer to my
neighbors plus I really don't want them
talking behind my back without me
knowing now whatever your reason is you
can try Babble today risk free with a
complete money back guarantee within
your first 20 days you'll get 60% off
when when you sign up as Neil once said
there is no greater education than the
one that is self-driven so let's get you
started today on a path to learning
something new with Babel all right
that's it let's get you back to the show
V all right this is Omar Shaw and Omar
Shaw says greetings Dr Tyson Lord nice
this is Omar from Sydney Australia is it
possible mathematically that our
universe is on the other side of a black
hole and could there be more universes
on the other sides of black holes I
think does does he mean our galaxy
because I have a book on the shelf that
goes through the mathematics of what's
on the other side of a black hole of a
black hole right right and if you fall
in your time slows down relative to what
you just came from right and you'll see
the entire future history of the
universe unfold right as you go down and
emerge a whole other SpaceTime opens up
in front of you I gotcha the mathematics
of general relativity gives you that
right I no one has tested this but
general relativity Works in all these
other ways and this is a prediction of
something that has worked so well it's
intriguing certainly worthy of at least
sci-fi treatment right before we get
actual data so the universe that has the
most universes right is the universe
that has the most black Hol h right now
are those is it a different universe or
is it or is it a residual Universe call
it what you will but there's no there's
no that you can't go back and forth of
course you so by by our operational
definition of Universe you're in another
univers you're in Another Universe and
don't denigrate it by calling it
residual or Universe light or dwarf
Universe okay I got you right I didn't
mean to you know didn't mean to PO the
the
universe no telling what'll happen
well that's very cool so mathematically
it does work out how it works
mathematically mathematically all right
cool this is Eduardo oh by the way yeah
the Horizon of the universe right has
this is beyond which you cannot see okay
has all the same properties as the Event
Horizon of a black hole oh so cool so
what what we see is the
edge of our universe that we can observe
as all the same properties as the the
same mathematical properties as the
Event Horizon of black hole wow didn't
know that so we would be living evidence
of a universe inside a black hole would
be that's crazy that's that's it's
freaky that is damn is that that's good
somebody get me an
edible no apparently you didn't need one
this is true this we we we it was
sufficiently fascinating enough that I
did not need any assistance correct and
having my mind blown a no assist fact
yeah mhm that's cool all right this is
uh Eduardo
Manila hello this is Eduardo writing
from Mexico what should I say hello this
is
Eduardo writing from
Mexico now normally I would Reserve that
for our
friend from M mon
me he says uh you heard that that
dinosaur joke it's a stupid no joke so I
was giving a public talk and I was
describing the 65 million year ago event
where Earth got hit by an asteroid and
we found where the crater is it's off
the tip of the Yucatan Peninsula okay
okay of Mexico and I thought it'd be
cute and say the Yucatan Peninsula of
Mexico but that's not with the dinosaurs
called it because it and then someone in
the audience they called it
Mexico
stupid it was like stupid funny it I
mean
clearly they spoke Spanish right right
exactly and they would pronounce it
correctly all right so Edo says I saw a
video on Strange Matter but I didn't
quite understand what exactly that is
could you maybe talk a little bit about
what it is and how it forms Strange
Matter yeah I so I'm not up on the very
latest there but there's actually good
precedent for having having this
mysterious thing happen in our particle
accelerators and we say we can't explain
this there must be some particle we
haven't discovered yet accounting for
this inexplainable
stuff for this behavior of the other
particles they're responding to
something that we can't see and don't
know how to figure out how to detect it
yet right so let's invent the idea of
this particle doing that has enabled the
discovery of multiple particles
ah assume something's there what would
its properties be to cause all the
confusion that it does let's look for it
and then look for it and we found it
okay the nutrino was one such Pro
particle look at that all right there
was a reaction of particles and at the
end the charge all worked out but the
momentum didn't add up so we have a law
of conservation momentum has never been
violated right all right it was missing
some momentum where' It Go all the same
we we took account of all the particles
right and somebody said a particle must
have taken away the momentum I don't
know where go look for it we knew it
didn't have a charge so it was called
little neutral one little neutral one
neutrino oh cool yeah yeah yeah so there
are things we cannot explain Dark Matter
Dark Energy there are these phenomena in
the universe where we are kind of I
don't know I want to say we're given up
but would say we don't know what it is
okay just call it anything okay since
some new kind of matter is it strange
matter is it uh and there's all there's
a whole catalog of names for these
particles that are not yet discovered
and many of them are fanciful wow so
it's a fun it's like a zoo so is that
like missing spaces in the periodical
chart oh very nice Chuck okay cool very
nice analog there all right cuz that's
complete now right you know on many
things you can say we got this move on
to the next problem right but we got
this right but there was a time when
they had to leave a space they space hey
we know something going to go there
right and you know one of them was
discovered I forgot exactly when um but
it was not discovered in nature we had
to make it oh right on okay do you know
the word for when you make something uh
manufacturer
yeah tech tech tech oh technology is you
made it you didn't get it from nature
okay we forgot that it applies to
everything today Tech okay so it's
called technum technum yep we made that
part we made that element that's pretty
cool so if all these hypothetical forms
of matter right all right uh one of them
has been named for a variety of Quark
okay that we know quarks have fanciful
names yeah okay there's an up Quirk
right a down Quirk right a strange Quark
a charm Quirk okay well a wine quk a
wine quk
Quark oh Quark Quark quk Quark
quk okay
Quark so what and the quarks make up our
our um nuclear particles right okay so
so there's an up down top bottom strange
Charmed okay okay so the up down are the
quarks that make
up protons and neutrons okay they have
heavier components in the universe that
we find in acceler ators but we don't
encounter them every day so all the
particles that we know and love have
versions at that exist at a higher
energy level so our quirks are up and
down the next level quarks are top and
bottom MH because they're and the next
level corks are are strange and
Charmed there's three levels of of
electrons as well three different kinds
of force carriers so this is what we
call the standard model yeah we chatt
about that with Brian Brian Green right
it's been hypothesized that the strange
Quark under certain conditions of
pressure temperature would manifest and
be the predominant particle in the
object okay so be Strange Matter
possibly making a strange star yeah yeah
but don't over interpret the word
strange it's just a word to describe a
variety of Quirk and you know where the
word came from top and bottom cork from
the gay community
cancel him okay don't no what are you
talking about I'm an advocate okay I
don't care what you're talking about I'm
an ally so don't cancel me the word
Quark comes from James Joyce's
Finnegan's wake really yes I okay how so
because we found that there were three
quarks in the middle of the proton and
neutron right okay
three and there's some rhyme in finigan
Wake that says three quarks for muster
Mark and so Murray Gman who's one of the
original physicists to think about what
the particles are in in the tiny tiny
stuff the tiny tiny part uh he had that
phrase in his head and then he says
three quarks for for must Mark and so it
was three because the number three okay
except there's more than three there's
like you know the two varieties times
three either six six kinds of Quark so
the numbers in the end don't match up
well he he didn't know he didn't know he
just started began the investigation but
the word Quark stayed okay yeah it's a
dumb name all right
um well you can't say what does it look
like right that's true I mean in my
field we see a nebula that looks like a
tarantula we call it the tarantula
nebula right we see another nebula looks
like North America which called the
North American nebula that's so crazy if
you see a quirk what are you going to
say it looks like well there is nothing
that say nothing to say you can't right
right oh that's cool all right okay I
take it back we do have that problem
must Mark if you ask me how big is the
universe well how big is the universe
it's as big
as end of sentence there you
go because how could you know how right
you can't there's it is the biggest you
can't compare it yeah there's nothing to
compare feet will go across it but
that's still doesn't there's no there's
no reference reference right okay you
ever wanteded one of your questions on
the universe answered we all have
questions about the universe black holes
to quazars quantum entanglement
wormholes there is no end to the depths
of cosmic curiosity well the entry level
of patreon membership with Star Talk
gets you just that I think it starts at
a month you have access to the question
line that reaches our Cosmic query
programming and not only that we produce
a special Cosmic
queries installment just for patreon
members if you weren't the director of
the Hayden planetarium what do you think
you would be doing what okay but this
had to be another Universe it wouldn't
happen in this universe okay I'd be I'd
be a a a songwriter for Broadway
musicals o so that's the entry level and
the perks ascend from there uh there's a
level in fact where we send you a an
autographed copy of one of my latest
books uh right now it's Star Messenger
Cosmic perspectives on civilization and
it's signed with my fancy fountain pen
with purple ink so I invite you to just
check the link below and all of that
money goes to our ability to exper ment
with new ways of bringing the universe
down to earth so thank you for those who
have already joined and we welcome
others to participate in this Grand
Adventure of what it is to bring the
universe down to earth as always keep
looking up let's move on to Maurice
Vanderlinden he says Dear he's from the
Netherlands or something yeah yes could
be Vander lindin Vander lindin from rdam
um hello this is morrice vanderlan from
rdam they don't speak like that I don't
know what they speak like I mean I've
been there several times but I still
don't know what they speak they speak
Dutch so you know you know they sound
you know anyway he says Dear Cosmos
connoisseurs Maurice from the
Netherlands here from the ne he was from
the Netherlands uh wanting to know more
about gas giants why are they named that
way oh come on
Maurice come on Maurice no maybe he's
listen keep reading I'm going keep
reading all right don't they oh okay you
look at you keep reading don't they have
a solid core and gaseous atmosphere the
same as terrestrial planets love the
show keep it up so in other words why
can't we just call them um you know uh
bigger atmosphere planets okay
because here we
go no when you get the when you get the
Tyson NE make me don't make me do this
you know you about to get red here's why
let me tell you why the difference
is on
Earth Earth's
atmosphere
is to the solid
Planet what the skin of an apple is to
an Apple Goa whereas on the gas
giants their atmosphere is to their
solid core what a peach is to its pit
pit okay that makes sense okay I got
what you're saying cuz I mean we
have our atmosphere is gas so gas it is
still gas but much of it but it has
nothing to really do with what we are if
you were to really look at it well
structurally Str I mean it matters for a
life and our ecosphere and everything no
no I'm saying if you were to take it
away we would still be a giant rock
floating in space correct there you go
correct you take away the atmosphere of
the gas giants they' be unrecognizable
nothing right
correct correct so a peach to its P or
smaller than a pit right I'm trying to
think of what's a good analog there like
an apple to a seed yeah but that's more
seeds and IEDs I I know what you're
saying right right right right you're
such a scientist you know what I mean
seriously you just can't let an apple
have one freaking seed everybody know
what a seed of an apple look like you
will not you're like no you cut the
Apple open and you got you got six seeds
in there so I we got to have one seed
I'm educator man okay and I've had some
avocados lately they had really small
pits so somebody's breeding them things
to be little yeah like when we grew up
no they were giant giant like so maybe
avocado one day just have a tiny little
pin it all be Flesh on the outside
that'd be like the gas giants right yeah
so he's right to think yes they have a
solid core right but it's a tiny thing
way down in the way down inside right
and let me ask this on the for all of
them follow up from Maurice no though is
that tiny core solid because of all the
pressure that the gas makes
they are made out of the same
ingredients as we are oh let wait let me
be precise okay okay all right the
original nebula that formed the sun and
the planets okay it's gas right mixed
with heavy elements but they're just
gaseous heavy elements okay the gas
giants when they form where do the heavy
elements go to the Center thank you and
they make a solid Mass there the lighter
elements go up to the top especially the
hydrogen and the helium and it has
enough gravity to hold on to them
they're moving fast but they're not
going to escape because the gravity is
strong gota for Earth where do the heavy
elements go to the center how about the
gas the lighter gases the two lightest
gases are hydrogen and helium they're
moving the fastest at any given
temperature it's a fascinating law first
discovered by James Clark Maxwell okay
we should do we should talk about that
who James Co mas no his maxwellian
distribution of velocities Let's do an
explainer on that will no it's very cool
all right really cool I'm about it okay
you got it cool okay put a pin in that
all right good so we're here we're
trying to hold on to the hydrogen of
helium The Way Jupiter Saturn Uranus and
Neptune did but we can't because our
gravity and it all just escapes back out
goes out okay that's really cool so
we're stuck with the heavy gases oxygen
nitrogen right and carbon dioxide okay
so that's how that works that's how that
works excellent oh man that was great
okay cool I like one those simple stuff
and of course within the solid core the
heavier stuff is in the center of the
solid core right right and what's in our
solid core we got iron and iron is
heavier than
everything it's heavier than the Rocks
right rocks float compared to Iron
compared to Iron yeah all right super
cool man this is uh Vasco vukov and
Vasco vukov says hello Dr Tyson Mr Nice
uh uh this is vasel VAV from Sophia
Bulgaria uh we're trying to find aliens
but if we want to hide from them what
should we and could we do even if they
Point their sensors straight towards us
how stealth could the Earth possibly be
I love that okay so now watch okay all
right you ready go ahead okay uh let's
go back in time M TV signals right the
reason why you altimer everyone else
just won't care what I'm about to say
mhm in the day you could get radio
stations from cities that were far away
but you wouldn't get TV
stations TV waves you have to be in a
direct sight line to the television
transmitter okay so you have to have a
transmitter everywhere for TV so TV was
very local in the day radio waves okay
especially short wave but also AM radio
its waves had the right frequency to
reflect off the ionos sphere of the
earth and it could move it could send a
signal beyond Earth's Horizon that's
crazy some would leak but others would
bounce back right point is these modes
of communication had leakage especially
television
waves so someone EES dropping on Earth
and they're let's say 80 light years
away they're getting the earliest radio
signals that have been emanating from
Earth at the speed of light good evening
Mr and Mrs America and all the ships at
Sea dat
Line and other there's howdy Duty right
there was uh and then the TV signals
would start coming in early TV The
Honeymooners uhhuh if they want to
decode our civilization right they think
that we're all abusive who like to
threaten our wives with violence with
violence by to the moon to the moon and
and when people laughed at that right
exactly right I think they left cuz she
was defiant even in the face of that
threat of violence oh my God you so
funny you going to beat your wife huh
right right right it's crazy it's crazy
times crazy crazy times so that's how
they'll learn how men and women interact
that's their Benchmark so this continues
throughout all the sitcoms and all the
TV that and and they'll see the war the
war broadcast and everything and then
they get right up to Puff Daddy and they
goes nothing has
changed they get to the 1980s mhm and
signals start disappearing uh-oh what
the heck is happening people are using
cable that's right okay so one of the
earliest shows which I feared would be
first seen by aliens but I think we're
protected is Beaverson Butthead right
that was MTV and you got that via cable
right okay that was not transmitted into
space Oh that's a shame you want the
aliens let me tell you something the one
thing I want the aliens to see is is are
you threatening me I am the
great so a lot of what's happening today
is protected from leakage for that
reason right because it's a closed
system it's a cold system it's all it's
cable right okay gota uh so that's my
first point second Point here's an just
an interesting fact if you're
communicating through space and you have
a signal you don't want anyone to
intercept it okay you want to encrypt it
right okay the perfect
encryption is so well
encrypted that it is
indistinguishable from the den of radio
noise in the universe oh that is now
that is awesome it is complely because
think about it think about
you're about okay if there was something
about your signal that was
different then I would know some created
it exactly okay so you need something to
encrypt it so that it looks like noise
and you have the noise decoder on the
other side look at that okay and when
you say noise you are you're talking
about the cosmic microwave background I
need the all of the radio noise in the
universe universe okay if you take a a
radio antenna point it anywhere there's
like noise right of course yeah okay
that's the static it's the static okay
so if I see something that doesn't look
like the static there's a signal there
even even if it's even if it is encoded
right I know there's a signal there yeah
because it's different it's different
from the static right so the perfect
encodings that's would
be indistinguishable from static so if a
if a planet wanted to hide right from
Alien eavesdropping they would make sure
that all signal transmission was so
thoroughly encoded that it was
indistinguishable look like the noise of
the universe correct that's great yes
that is really great yeah I love it yeah
yeah and now it's a little tough because
you might have more noise here than
somewhere else that could give you away
right there's the background in and then
there a bright noise spot here so
there's an anomaly of noise noise of
noise yeah so you have to figure that
one out too yeah yeah yeah but that's
cool though yeah it's very cool another
way to hide from Aliens yeah you get one
generation of astronomers to send a
plaque out into space right intended to
be read by aliens this is a plaque from
Pioneer 10 and 11 right which was
launched in the 1970s and some of this
iconography was also used for the
Voyager missions right but notice at the
bottom there's the solar system there
the solar syst there's the sun the sun
and Mercury Venus Earth and Earth is's a
line coming from Earth right that shows
where this spacecraft came from because
this is a this is a life size of the
spaceship relative to the two human
figures okay so you get one generation
to try to talk to
aliens innocently not knowing the aliens
are evil they're going to come and suck
our brains out right but let them show a
nine planet solar system right yeah this
one has Pluto right they're going to
come looking for us because this this is
their return address by the way the
spider Di
that's our distance to pulsars in the
Galaxy you can triangulate on that and
come right back to our vicinity why
would we do that in the why would we
ever do that that is so it seemed like a
good idea at the time that's insane I
know you wouldn't give your email to a
another human stranger in the street
that's like going on vacation and
putting all your plans on social media
hey guess what we're leaving on the 10th
and we'll be gone for two weeks that's
the perfect time to come rob my house
people
so so now they come back looking for a
nine planet solar system and ours is not
that okay and and the reason why would
they not think it because Pluto is
represented in this as a planet as a
planet as the same size as like Mercury
and other other objects here and it's
just not guys uh we only see eight
planets here we got the wrong one there
you go got the wrong solar system
nothing go keep going right except for
that one planet with all the trash out
on his front lawn what is
what's going on
there no sign of intelligent life
returning home all right to Planet
Zebula all right this is Laticia Davis
she says uh hey this is Laticia Davis
from Conway Arkansas so nice how many
early Cosmic discoveries were made by
curious observers with no formal
training is the frontier still within
the reach of amateurs or has science
Advanced too far for a lay person to
contribute to the cosmic perspective
love that wow look at that very good
very good all right so let me give
something that's not an answer to that
just yet cuz I I just want to put it out
there I wrote an essay many moons ago
called stick in the mud astronomy I
think it's online stick in the mud
astronomy okay if you have a stick and
you put it in the ground right what can
you deduce about the operations of the
Universe from just a stick in the ground
okay you can invent a a a Sund dial mhm
contract rising and setting points of
the sun on the horizon and the moon and
all of this okay so you can go you can
do quite a bit it was an homage to
ancient peoples who didn't have
telescopes there's a whole essay on that
called stick in the mud astronomy all
right without access to Frontier
telescopes you're not going to discover
dim things right because you're not
you're just not going to ever SE can't
see them however there are more amateur
astronomers in the world than there are
professional
astronomers right yeah and they all have
like backyard telescopes that's fine
very accessible they're looking up all
the time amateur astronomers have
famously and historically discovered
comets right discovered Supernova
although we have Supernova surveys now
that are very efficient you might not be
in line for that but if you see
something say something okay we have a
clearing house because phenomena that
comes and goes MH we don't know about
right right we can't we we we I have a
telescope for one night and I'm looking
and I go home that's why we have the
Vera Ruben telescope which is basically
be basically going to be taking video of
the universe of the whole sky so you can
watch in case something shows up and
goes away or disappears you know what
else we'll discover every one of Elon
musk's satellites coming across that'll
contaminate the data where we're trying
to find out there's an asteroid with our
name on it so I'm a little worried about
that so like Elon so like
so what else you can do is you can and
there there there are coordinated groups
that invest this effort there're
asteroids we don't know how big they
are okay we don't have good sort of
radar to asteroids right so if we think
an asteroid is going to come in front of
a star and blot out its
light and you have people lined up on
Earth to watch this
because how big are asteroids
there's 100 meters across few kilometers
across mile across whatever it's not
thousands of miles across so you line
people up on
Earth and some will not
see the light of the star dim right and
other people will yeah on each side so
only a narrow path of people will see
the light dim and that can tell you the
size of the asteroid mhm but you can we
don't there're not enough amateur
astronomers to do this so everybody's
got to line up watch the object keep
good time and do this so yes there's
still things to do but also we have this
citizen science projects we're a wash in
data yes and we say we're looking for
this help us I mean we might put AI on
it but sometimes the human touch matters
and because not all AI is human yet and
so yes there are ways you can still
contribute
very cool there you go okay last one
real quick all right this is sharaii Ry
who says greetings Dr Tyson Lord nice
currently reside in Dubai United Arab
Emirates I am a researcher and a
graduate student in astrophysics what
possible aspects of our current model of
The Big Bang Theory do you feel will be
revised considering the contradictions
to the Same by the latest James web
Space Telescope observations so the Big
Bang is supported by so many different
lines of evidence that if our galaxy
models don't match what we see chances
are it's a problem with the Galaxy model
the models yeah not the big bang itself
not the big bang itself the GX are
embedded within a much larger Matrix of
observations and data that have been
affirmed by measurements over decades so
we we think we understand galaxies the
whole point of the of the James web
telescope was to observe galaxies being
born right because you don't fully
understand that process if we take what
we think Galaxy should be like and they
don't match it you don't say toss out
the whole big bang you say maybe our
understanding of galaxies is flawed
there you go but saying our
understanding of galaxies is flawed is
very different clickbait from we need to
rethink the Big Bang right and so that's
what we're all caught up in here exactly
okay it's clickbait right that's that's
it that's what what do you expect yeah
exactly it's it's the same as the Bat
Boy
uh headlines you know oh from the old
days remember from the old days bat boy
found it's like a boy half boy half bat
right so I forgot all about those yeah
yeah yeah yeah that that was the
original clip bait yep yep yep y all
right all right so that's all we got
time for all right well that was fun
knock out another one there was F okay
got from all over Sydney everywhere and
and the Netherland the Netherlands we
we're Global baby all right I'm liking
it always good to have you man always a
pleasure all right this has been a Star
Talk Cosmic query
from my office here at the Hayden
planetarium of the American Museum of
Natural History as always I bid you to
keep looking up
[Music]